
The wargames offered by the OverTheWire community can help you to learn and practice security concepts in the form of fun-filled games.
To find out more about a certain wargame, just visit its page linked from the menu on the left.

If you have a problem, a question or a suggestion, you can join us via chat.
Suggested order to play the games in

- Bandit
- Natas
- Leviathan
- Krypton
- Narnia
- Behemoth
- Utumno
- Maze
- Vortex
- Manpage
- Drifter
- FormulaOne
- Semtex

Each shell game has its own SSH port

Information about how to connect to each game using SSH, is provided in the top left corner of the page. Keep in mind that every game uses a different SSH port.


Levels

Level 0 - SSH Login.
Level 1 - Read a File.
Level 2 - Unusually named Files.
Level 3 - Spaces in a filename.
Level 4 - Hidden Files.
Level 5 - File types, specifically human-readable files.
Level 6 - Human-readable files, file sizes and non-executable files.
Level 7 - Find a file with specific user and group ownership.
Level 8 - Learning grep and piping.
Level 9 - Linux command uniq and sort, to find lines only appearing once.
Level 10 - The ‘strings’ command. Find human-readable strings in a file.
Level 11 - Base64.
Level 12 - Rot13 substitution cipher as Linux command with ’tr’.
Level 13 - Hexdumps and compression and file signatures.
Level 14 - SSH Login with key and transferring files from a remote host.
Level 15 - Netcat and first network communication.
Level 16 - OpenSSL, secure communication.
Level 17 - Port and Service Scanning with Nmap and SSL repetition.
Level 18 - Find differences in a file.
Level 19 - Advanced SSH, remote command execution.
Level 20 - Suid and linux permissions.
Level 21 - Setuid binary, netcat and background processes/jobs.
Level 22 - Cronjobs.
Level 23 - Cronjobs.
Level 24 - Cronjobs and bash scripting.
Level 25 - Brute-forcing with bash scripting and netcat.
Level 26 - Breaking out of a restricted environment with more and vim.
Level 27 - Breaking out of a restricted environment with more and vim and SUID Binary.
Level 28 - Git introduction and basics.
Level 29 - Git history.
Level 30 - Git Branching Basics.
Level 31 - Git Tagging.
Level 32 - Git Push, Commit, Ignore, Add.
Level 33 - Linux Variables and shell escape.
Level 34 - At this moment, level 34 does not exist yet.

